# Lecture-22-PMA-IMTIAZ
All right.  Welcome to the lecture.  Now we're gonna make our lives a bit easier.  
We've been using a manual approach throughout the course so far to enter data into our application right.  
Every time we needed to add an employee we had to fill out the employee form if we needed to add a project  we'd had to fill out the project form.  Those are very manual process.  OK.  And I made you go through that on purpose manually just so you understand the workflow and see how everything  is connected and how your application changes as you add more data.  But since we've graduated from that point now we're gonna make things a bit more practical and easier  in terms of development.  And so what I'm going to do is seed the database with some pre-existing data so that when you make changes  in your application you don't lose all that data that you were testing replication with.  And so what we have to do is in the project management application class I've already pulled it up here.  That's coming from the com that GOP that PMA is the root package of the application.  Notice the Spring Boot application annotation.  This is our starting point of the application.  I've added two objects I'm going to need here the employee repository as well as the project repository.  All right.  And so using these two objects we can actually get access to the data in the database or enter data  and retrieve data.  And so to seed the database with some data every time your application starts the way to do that is  we're gonna create an instance of a command line runner.  Okay.  And so what we do is we use the app being annotation and again we have a lot more to talk about when  it comes to annotations but just follow along here and get this code up and running and then we're gonna  dive deeper into each of these different annotations that we're seeing.  So we're gonna define the class command line runner and the implementation is going to be called Running  Right here.  Okay.  And so as part of this method called runner it returns it returns args.  So when I use a return keyword and put ARGs and we're going to use a lambda expression here  and actually we don't need a semicolon at the end of this.  This is just a we're defining a method here which returns a type called command line runner and these  are the odds that get past the starting point of our application what is the starting point.  It's this right here this main method.  Right.  And this Spring Boot application started class.  And so let's just do a command shift to bring in the import for the bean annotation.  And here is where we're going to define all of the employees and projects that can get loaded when our  application starts up.  So I've provided code as part of this lecture.  So make sure you get that.  I have that opened on my other screen here I'm just in a copy it and paste it.  And you of course have access to this code so make sure you do the same.  So I'm going to paste a couple of employees so I've pasted nine employees Euro I have defined their  names their emails and so on.  All right let's just do a command shift order.  Bring in the import for the employee entity after redefined the employees are going to define a few  projects.  All right.  So we would have to be doing this manually if we didn't have this data in this started class.  So this is gonna save us a lot more time now.  So going to pace the projects.  Right.  And let's bring in the import for the project entity and have the final product one two three and four.  Now notice these are projects I haven't linked the employees to the projects yet I've just defined a  separate project and I've defined the separate employees.  So now we're gonna do is actually make the link between the project and the employee.  And so the next thing here I'm just going to copy paste the assignment and that is you know we're needing  to set both sides of the relationship manually First we set a project with the employee so we're we're  seeing the project one gets assigned employee one project one also gets employee to product to get employee  3 project 3 It's employee 1.  So here we're building that relationship.  Many projects could be assigned to many employees many to many.  Now we did this for the projects.  We actually also have to do it for the employees.  All right.  So I'm going to do that on this second line here.  Underneath here notice I'm reading this again need to set both sides of the relationship manually.  So now here we're assigning the projects to the actual employees based on the rules that we've already  defined here and we're using the arrays that as list functionality to to list out the employees rather  than having to manually.  These are two different approaches you can use either one.  And let's just do a command shift to bring in the utility that arrays class.  And so now that we have the assignment out of the way what do we do.  Well it's actually quite simple.  All we have to do is save these projects as well as these employees to the database.  So let's do that.  I I'm going to copy that code from that file that you should have and I going to paste it right here.  And so now we're using the EMP repo to save employee 1 to save Employee 2 3 4 all the way to 9 and then  we're also doing that for projects we're saving each of the projects.  All right.  And these objects have the associations already linked with their respective you know the employees  are assigned to the products and the products are assigned to the employee so that these objects carry  the relationship already linked because we're utilizing these these methods here and by the way this  ad employee method if I open it up that's a that's a method in the project class.  And so all we're doing in this method if you don't have it in your code make sure you add it.  We're just checking to see if the employees list is null if it is then we're just creating a new relist  and then down here all we do is add the given employee that's passed in right to the employees list  of the product.  So you can do it like this where you utilize an add employee or add project method.  These are known as convenience methods or you could just use the approach that I did here where you  set the projects you know in passing and a list of the objects or you would be doing the same thing  up there.  So both options I wanted to show you that you can of course use all Java functionality is legal here  you can use that of course is Java code and so that's it.  We save these entities in our databases and so every time we restart our application that data is already  going to be there.  All right.  So now that we added this data let's just go back and open up our app.  I'm just gonna refresh and notice we start with some data.  Let's go to the home page and those we already have some data.  So this must be you know soothing for your eyes to see because you don't have to manually create these  every time anymore.  You go to the employees tab you have all of the employees already there.  You go to the products tab you have the projects displaying.  So this is great.
